.TH WALLPICKER 1
.SH NAME
wallpicker \- interactive wallpaper selector with hexagonal thumbnail UI
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B wallpicker
.br
.B wallpicker
.I directory
.br
.B wallpicker
[\fB\-c\fR \fIn\fR]
[\fB\-s\fR \fIpx\fR]
[\fB\-a\fR \fIdeg\fR]
[\fIdirectory\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B wallpicker
is an interactive utility for producing wallpaper selections.
It operates on a directory of images and produces a transparent, undecorated raylib window containing a hexagonal grid of thumbnails.

The thumbnails are generated deterministically and cached as follows:
On the first run, supported images are resized, clipped to a hexagonal mask, and written to the cache directory.
Subsequent executions load directly from the cache.

Clicking a thumbnail computes the relative X and Y screen coordinates of the selection and tries to execute the runtime hook.
If no hook exists, it falls back to a minimal built-in apply logic.
.SH OPTIONS
The following parameters control the output format.
.B wallpicker
does not currently implement \fB\-h\fR or \fB\-\-help\fR flags.
.TP
.BR \-c ", " \-\-cols " " \fIn\fR
Arrange thumbnails in \fIn\fR columns.
\fIn\fR must be a positive integer.
.TP
.BR \-s ", " \-\-spacing " " \fIpx\fR
Set the gap between adjacent hexagons to \fIpx\fR pixels.
\fIpx\fR must be a non-negative number.
.TP
.BR \-a ", " \-\-angle " " \fIdeg\fR
Rotate the grid layout by \fIdeg\fR degrees clockwise.
.TP
.I directory
A single optional positional argument specifying the directory to scan for wallpaper images.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I $HOME/Pictures/wallpapers
Default wallpaper directory.
.TP
.I $HOME/.cache/wallpicker
Cache directory for hex-masked thumbnails.
.TP
.I $HOME/.config/hypr-wallpicker/apply-wallpaper.sh
Runtime hook path.
Executed on selection with three positional arguments:
.B $1
(wallpaper path),
.B $2
(rel_x),
.B $3
(rel_y).
.PP
The source repository ships with examples (e.g., \fIscripts/apply-wallpaper-wayland.example.sh\fR).
These are examples only and are not auto-installed runtime hooks.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B HOME
Required by \fBwallpicker\fR to resolve the default wallpaper directory, cache directory, and runtime hook path.
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
Normal success.
.TP
.B >0
Non-zero on initialization, path resolution, memory allocation, or setup failures.
.SH EXAMPLES
Launch with the default wallpaper directory:
.PP
.RS
.B wallpicker
.RE
.PP
Launch with a specific directory:
.PP
.RS
.B wallpicker
.I ~/Pictures/wallpapers
.RE
.PP
Launch with an absolute path and custom grid layout:
.PP
.RS
.B wallpicker
\fB\-c\fR 6 \fB\-a\fR 15.0
.I /mnt/media/walls
.RE
.SH NOTES
The built-in fallback logic is intentionally minimal right now.
It only conditionally attempts to execute
.BR awww (1)
if the binary is present in the system path.
All legacy post-commands (such as symlinking, matugen execution, and hyprland reloads) are currently commented out in the source code.

Custom hooks are the intended portability path for handling differences between Wayland and X11 environments for now.

Official documentation and updates can be found at the project repository:
.UR https://github.com/Horizon0427/hypr-wallpicker
.UE
.SH AUTHORS
.B Horizon0427
(upstream maintainer)
.br
.B GrandBIRDLizard
(core contributor)
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR sh (1),
.BR feh (1),
.BR groff (1),
.BR man (7)
